MON-3222: Make netdev/netclass interfaces configurable (#1963)
openshift/cluster-monitoring-operator: Documentation/api.md

| -------- | ---- | ----------- |
| enabled | bool | A Boolean flag that enables or disables the `netclass` collector. |
| useNetlink | bool | A Boolean flag that activates the `netlink` implementation of the `netclass` collector. This implementation improves the performance of the `netclass` collector by omitting these metrics: `node_network_address_assign_type`, `node_network_name_assign_type`, `node_network_device_id`, `node_network_speed_bytes`. In addition, The `node_network_info` metric lacks the `duplex` label. |

> | ignoredNetworkDevices | *[]string | A list of network devices to be excluded from collection, using regular expressions. By default, the following list is used: `veth.*`, `[a-f0-9]{15}`, `enP.*`, `ovn-k8s-mp[0-9]*`, `br-ex`, `br-int`, `br-ext`, `br[0-9]*`, `tun[0-9]*`, `cali[a-f0-9]*` |

Author: Should I add some kind of warning here, that removing filters from the default list will increase cardinality?

Author: Especially for filters such as `[a-f0-9]{15}` or `cali[a-f0-9]*` , removal must be considered with care

> | ignoredNetworkDevices | *[]string | A list of network devices to be excluded from collection, using regular expressions. By default, the following list is used: `veth.*`, `[a-f0-9]{15}`, `enP.*`, `ovn-k8s-mp[0-9]*`, `br-ex`, `br-int`, `br-ext`, `br[0-9]*`, `tun[0-9]*`, `cali[a-f0-9]*` |

Reviewer: Does it make sense to have 1 exclude list for each collector? I feel that in most (all?) cases, you want to apply the same list to both collectors.

Author: For this particular RFE it's fine to have only one, but in case later a customer wants to tune one and not the other, splitting a single setting into two would be a breaking change, or would need to keep both settings versions thus making it more complex, that's why I thought it would be better to have 2 right from the beginning. I'm fine with both options.

If we make a single option, where should it go? In `NodeExporterConfig`, in `NodeExporterCollectorConfig` or in a new struct for common network settings?

Reviewer 2: I agree with @simonpasquier here, seems most likely user will want to ignore devices across collectors.
I'd propose to add this as a field to `NodeExporterConfig`. If we later need per collector ignore lists, they could be added and would override the list set in `NodeExporterConfig`.

> | ignoredNetworkDevices | *[]string | A list of network devices to be excluded from collection, using regular expressions. By default, the following list is used: `veth.*`, `[a-f0-9]{15}`, `enP.*`, `ovn-k8s-mp[0-9]*`, `br-ex`, `br-int`, `br-ext`, `br[0-9]*`, `tun[0-9]*`, `cali[a-f0-9]*` |

Reviewer: I wouldn't document the exact list as it would quickly become out of date. Maybe include some general phrasing that by default, node_exporter will try to collect metrics only from physical network interfaces.

Author: my intent was that users who override this parameter can easily know what's the setting baseline, so they have a known working starting point when they want to update this setting - but yes this is assuming this doc is always kept up to date. Let me know if you still prefer that I remove it.

| -------- | ---- | ----------- |
| collectors | [NodeExporterCollectorConfig](#nodeexportercollectorconfig) | Defines which collectors are enabled and their additional configuration parameters. |
| maxProcs | uint32 | The target number of CPUs on which the Node Exporter's process will run. The default value here is `0`, which means that Node Exporter runs on all CPUs. If a kernel deadlock occurs or if performance degrades when reading from `sysfs` concurrently, you can change this value to `1`, which limits Node Exporter to running on one CPU. For nodes with a high CPU count, you can set the limit to a low number, which  saves resources by preventing Go routines from being scheduled to run on all CPUs. However, I/O performance degrades if the `maxProcs` value is set too low, and there are many metrics to collect. |

> | ignoredNetworkDevices | *[]string | A list of network devices, as regular expressions, to be excluded from the relevant collectors configuration such as `netdev` and `netclass`. When not set, the Cluster Monitoring Operator uses a predefined list of devices to be excluded to minimize the impact on memory usage. When set as an empty list, no devices are excluded. If you modify this setting, watch the prometheus-k8s deployment closely for excessive memory usage. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| ignoredNetworkDevices | *[]string | A list of network devices, as regular expressions, to be excluded from the relevant collector configuration such as `netdev` and `netclass`. When not set, the Cluster Monitoring Operator uses a predefined list of devices to be excluded to minimize the impact on memory usage. When set as an empty list, no devices are excluded. If you modify this setting, monitor the prometheus-k8s deployment closely for excessive memory usage. |
```
